Prerequisites:

JDK version 7 or higher
Protobuf version 2.2  

Go get the example code from : https://grpc.io/docs/languages/java/quickstart/ and u are ready to get started 

Building using gradle with the option -PskipSdk = true; while running ./gradlew/installDist to compile the server and the client avoiding android sdk problems

Run the server : ./build/install/examples/bin/hello-world-server
INFO: Server started, listening on 50051

in another terminal,

Run the client : ./build/install/examples/bin/hello-world-client
INFO: Will try to greet "world" ...  (wrold is the message requested it will be sent to the server and then the reply service will send it back)
INFO: Greeting: Hello "world"

Congratulations! You’ve just run a client-server application with gRPC.

Notes: 

To turn off the server, you need to find the process ID (PID) of the server and then stop the process. Here's how you can do it:

netstat -ano | findstr :50051 (50051 is PID) 

This will display a list of all the processes running on port 50051, along with their corresponding process IDs (PID).

In my case i'have got :
 
  TCP    0.0.0.0:50051          0.0.0.0:0              LISTENING       19124 
  TCP    [::]:50051             [::]:0                 LISTENING       19124

So the PID is 19124, to terminate the server process use the commande:

taskkill /F /PID 19124

General grpc concepts :

-> Protobuf runtime: is a library that provides support for encoding and decoding data in the Protocol Buffers format. Protocol Buffers (protobuf) is a 
language-agnostic data serialization format developed by Google, which allows for efficient and platform-independent communication between systems.
The protobuf runtime library provides the necessary tools to parse and serialize data in the protobuf format, as well as to generate language-specific code from
protobuf schema definitions. 

It includes support for various programming languages, such as Java, C++, Python, and Go, among others.
One of the main advantages of using the protobuf runtime library is its efficiency in terms of data size and parsing speed. Compared to other data serialization 
formats, protobuf is typically smaller in size and faster to parse, which can lead to significant performance improvements in data-intensive applications.
In addition to the core encoding and decoding functionality, the protobuf runtime library also includes support for features such as field presence detection, 
default values, and nested messages, among others. This makes it a powerful tool for building complex and scalable systems that require efficient and reliable
data communication.

-> What's the differences between data parsing and serialization: Data parsing and serialization are two related concepts, but they refer to different processes 
in dataprocessing. Data parsing involves analyzing a string or a sequence of bytes and extracting structured information from it, according to a specific format
or grammar. The process of parsing typically involves breaking down the input data into its individual components, such as fields or tokens, and validating or
transforming them according to predefined rules or constraints. The result of parsing is usually a data structure or an object that represents the parsed information
in a structured way, such as a tree, a graph, or a dictionary.

Serialization, on the other hand, involves converting a structured data object or a data structure into a format that can be stored or transmitted as a stream of bytes
or characters. The serialization process typically involves encoding the structured data into a specific format, such as JSON, XML, or Protocol Buffers, by mapping its
components to a set of primitive data types, such as numbers, strings, or arrays. The resulting serialized data can then be transmitted or stored in a database, a 
file, or a network buffer.

In summary, parsing is the process of extracting structured information from an input data stream, while serialization is the process of encoding structured
information into a format that can be transmitted or stored.

-> Some usefull technical definitions:
1) Gradle is a popular build automation tool used in the software development process. It allows developers to automate the building, testing, and deployment of their applications.
Gradle 7.6 is the latest version of Gradle, released in August 2021. It includes several new features and improvements, such as better support for Java 17, faster build caching, 
and improved dependency management.

With Gradle, developers can define their build scripts using a Groovy or Kotlin DSL, which allows for more flexibility and customization compared to other build tools 
like Maven or Ant. Gradle also provides a plugin system that allows developers to easily integrate with other tools and frameworks.

Overall, Gradle is a powerful and flexible tool that can help streamline the software development process, especially for larger and more complex projects.

2) Maven released in mars 1997 / script definitions : XML in a file called pom.xml. The pom.xml file specifies the project's dependencies, plugins, and other 
   configuration details, such as the project's name, version, and packaging type.
   Ant: released in 2000 as an open-source project by the Apache Software Foundation uses XML as a script language.

3) CMake is an open-source, cross-platform build system that is used to manage the build process of software projects. It allows developers to write build scripts
in a declarative language that is then used to generate native build files for a variety of platforms, including Unix, Linux, Windows, and macOS.
CMake was initially developed by Kitware in 2000 as a replacement for their in-house build system, and it has since become one of the most widely used build systems
in the software development industry. CMake provides a range of features, including automatic dependency resolution, support for out-of-tree builds, and the ability
to easily add and configure third-party libraries. It can be used with a variety of programming languages, including C++, C#, Python, GO and Fortran, among others.

4) Makefile is an older build automation tool that has been around since the 1970s. It is typically used to manage the compilation and linking of C and C++ programs. 
Makefile uses a text-based script format that specifies the dependencies between files and the commands needed to build the final executable.




